Here is an application of a Hamel basis.

<div class="block-head">Theorem 1</div>
<div class="block-body"> 
Let $P(x)\in\mathbb{R}[x]$ be a polynomial of degree $n$. Then there exist 
periodic functions $g_{1}(x)$, $g_{2}(x)$, $\ldots$, $g_{n+1}(x)$ such that
$P(x)=g_{1}(x)+g_{2}(x)+\ldots+g_{n+1}(x)$.
</div>

$\rhd$ Let $A$ be a Hamel basis. Then every $x\in \mathbb{R}$ can be represented 
as the finite linear combination of elements from $A$ with rational 
coefficients $x=\sum\limits_{a\in A}c_{a}(x)a$. For distinct $a$, $b\in A$ we 
have $c_{a}(x+b)=c_{a}(x)$. In other words, $c_{a}(x)$ is a periodic function 
with the period $b\in A\setminus\{a\}$.  
 
Using the identity $x=\sum\limits_{a\in A}c_{a}(x)a$, we express $P(x)$ as a 
linear combination of products $c_{a}(x)c_{b}(x)\ldots$ where $a,b,\ldots\in A$ 
and each product has at most $n$ multipliers. Let $a_{0}$, $a_{1}$, 
$\ldots$, $a_{n}$ be $n+1$ distinct elements of $A$. No product $c_{a}(x)c_{b}(x)\ldots$ 
in the expression can involve all of $a_{0}$, $a_{1}$, $\ldots$, $a_{n}$. 
Therefore, we can group all the terms into $n+1$ sums $P_{0}(x)$, $P_{1}(x)$, 
$\ldots$, $P_{n}(x)$ so that no term in $P_{i}(x)$ has the multiplier 
$c_{a_{i}}(x)$. Thus, we have 

\[
P(x)=P_{0}(x)+P_{1}(x)+\ldots+P_{n}(x),
\] 

and each $P_{i}(x)$ has period $a_{i}$. $\lhd$

<div class="block-head">Theorem 2</div>
<div class="block-body"> 
A polynomial of degree $n$ cannot be expressed as a sum of $n$ periodic functions.
</div>

$\rhd$ We argue by contradiction. Suppose that for some $n\in\mathbb{N}$, there is a 
polynomial $P(x)$ of degree $n$ that is the sum of $n$ periodic functions. Let 
$d$ be a one of the periods. It follows that $P(x+d)-P(x)$ is a polynomial of 
degree $n-1$, and it is the sum of $n-1$ periodic functions, since one of the 
term is canceled. By repeating this, we eventually obtain a polynomial of the 
first degree that is the sum of one periodic function, which is impossible. 
$\lhd$