Here we discuss the column generation method for solving the one-dimensional 
cutting stock problem.

<div class='block-head'>1-D Cutting Stock Problem</div>
<div class='block-body'>
From rolls of length $L$, we need to cut out pieces of length $\ell_{1}$, 
$\ell_{2}$, $\ldots$, $\ell_{m}$, respectively, in the quantities
$q_{1}$, $q_{2}$, $\ldots$, $q_{m}$. Our goal is to use the minimum number of 
rolls. 
</div>

<div class='block-head'>Definition</div>
<div class='block-body'>
A vector $a=(a_{1}$, $a_{2}$, $\ldots$, $a_{m})^{\top}\in\mathbb{Z}_{+}^{m}$ 
is called <em>pattern</em> if $\sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}a_{i}\ell_{i}\leq L$.
</div>

If $a=(a_{1}$, $a_{2}$, $\ldots$, $a_{m})^{\top}$ is a pattern, then one can 
simultaneously cut out $a_{1}$ pieces of length $\ell_{1}$, $a_{2}$ pieces of 
length $\ell_{2}$, ..., $a_{m}$ pieces of length $\ell_{m}$ from a roll of
length $L$.

Let $a^{j}=(a_{1}^{j}$, $a_{2}^{j}$, $\ldots$, $a_{m}^{j})^{\top}$, 
$j\in\{1,$ $2$, $\ldots$, $n\}$, be the set of all possible patterns. We denote 
by $x_{j}\in\mathbb{Z}_{+}$ the number of rolls that need to be cut according
to the pattern $a^{j}$. To find $x_{j}$ we must solve the following IP problem:

\[
\begin{array}{rl}
\min& \sum\limits_{j=1}^{n}x_{j}\\
\mathrm{s.t.}& \sum\limits_{j=1}^{n}a_{i}^{j}x_{j}\geq q_{j},1\leq i\leq m\\
& x_{j}\in\mathbb{Z}_{+},1\leq j\leq n
\end{array}
\tag{1}
\]

To approximately solve problem (1), we can first solve its relaxation.

\[
\begin{array}{rl}
\min& \sum\limits_{j=1}^{n}x_{j}\\
\mathrm{s.t.}& \sum\limits_{j=1}^{n}a_{i}^{j}x_{j}\geq q_{j},1\leq i\leq m\\
& x_{j}\geq 0,1\leq j\leq n
\end{array}
\tag{2}
\]

and then properly round up an optimal solution of problem (2). However, $n$ 
(the number of variables) can be very large, so we can't solve problem (2) 
directly. To solve problem (2) we may use the column generation method. We 
first select a relatively small subset of patterns $a^{1}$, $a^{2}$, 
$\ldots$, $a^{k}$ so that the following truncated LP problem 

\[
\begin{array}{rl}
\min& \sum\limits_{j=1}^{k}x_{j}\\
\mathrm{s.t.}& \sum\limits_{j=1}^{k}a_{i}^{j}x_{j}\geq q_{j},1\leq i\leq m\\
& x_{j}\geq 0,1\leq j\leq k
\end{array}
\tag{3}
\]

has a feasible solution. Along with problem (3), let us consider its dual 
problem

\[
\begin{array}{rl}
\max& \sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}q_{i}y_{i}\\
\mathrm{s.t.}& \sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}a_{i}^{j}y_{i}\leq 1,1\leq j\leq k\\
& y_{i}\geq 0,1\leq i\leq m
\end{array}
\tag{4}
\]

Let $x^{\star}$ and $y^{\star}$ be optimal solutions of problem (3) and (4), 
respectively. If 

\[
\sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}a_{i}^{j}y_{i}^{\star}\leq 1,\quad j\in\{1,2,\ldots,n\},
\tag{5}
\]

then $y^{\star}$ is an optimal solution of the dual problem to problem (2), and 
then, according to the [strong duality theorem](23_11_29_19_54.md),
$\begin{pmatrix}x^{*}\\\mathbf{0}\end{pmatrix}\in\mathbb{R}^{n}$ is an 
optimal solution of problem (2). 

To verify inequalities (5), it is sufficient to solve the following problem: 

\[
\begin{array}{rl}
\max& \sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}y_{i}^{\star}z_{i}\\
\mathrm{s.t.}& \sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}\ell_{i}z_{i}\leq L,1\leq j\leq n\\
& z_{i}\in\mathbb{Z}_{+},1\leq i\leq m
\end{array}
\tag{6}  
\]

Problem (6) can be solved by dynamic programming. Let $z^{\star}$ be an optimal 
solution of problem (6). Let us note that $z^{\star}$ is a pattern. If
$\sum\limits_{i=1}^{m}y_{i}^{\star}z_{i}^{\star}> 1$, then we add a new column 
$a^{k+1}=z^{\star}$ to problem (3) and resolve problems (4) and (6). Otherwise, 
we stop generating columns and solve problem (3).