Let $(M,\rho)$ be a metric space.

<div class="block-head">Definition</div>
<div class="block-body">
Let $A\subset M$ and $x\in M$. The value $d(x,A)=\inf\limits_{a\in A}\rho(x,a)$ 
is called the <em>distance</em> from $x$ to $A$.
</div>

<div class="block-head">Lemma 1 (Urysohn)</div>
<div class="block-body">
Let $A$ and $B$ be disjoint closed subsets of $M$. Then there exists a 
continuous function $f\colon M\to[-1,1]$ such that $f(A)=\{-1\}$ and 
$f(B)=\{1\}$.
</div>

$\rhd$ Since $A$ and $B$ are disjoint, it follows that $d(x,A)+d(x,B)>0$ for
each $x\in M$. Hence, the function 

\[
f(x)\stackrel{\mathrm{def}}{=}\dfrac{d(x,A)-d(x,B)}{d(x,A)+d(x,B)}
\] 

is well-defined and possesses the desired properties. $\lhd$

<div class="block-head">Lemma 2.</div>
<div class="block-body">
Let $c>0$, let $X\subset M$ be a closed subset, and let $f\colon X\to[-c,c]$ be
a continuous function. Then there exists a continuous function 
$g\colon M\to\left[-\dfrac{c}{3},\dfrac{c}{3}\right]$ such that 
$|f(x)-g(x)|\leq\dfrac{2c}{3}$ for each $x\in X$.  
</div>

$\rhd$ Consider the closed subsets $A\stackrel{\mathrm{def}}{=}
\{x\in X\colon f(x)\leq-\dfrac{c}{3}\}$ and $B\stackrel{\mathrm{def}}{=}
\{x\in X\colon f(x)\geq\dfrac{c}{3}\}$. From Lemma 1, it follows that there
exists a continuous function $g\colon M\to\left[-\dfrac{c}{3},
\dfrac{c}{3}\right]$ such that $g(A)=\left\{-\dfrac{c}{3}\right\}$
$g(B)=\left\{\dfrac{c}{3}\right\}$. It is easy to see, that 
$|f(x)-g(x)|\leq \dfrac{2c}{3}$ for each $x\in X$. $\lhd$

<div class="block-head">Theorem (Tietze)</div>
<div class="block-body">
Let $X\subset M$ be a closed subset, let $f\colon X\to[-1,1]$ be a continuous 
function. Then there exists a continuous function $F\colon M\to[-1,1]$ such that
$F|_{X}\equiv f$.
</div>

$\rhd$ From Lemma 2, it follows that there exists a continuous function 
$g_{0}\colon X\to\left[-\dfrac{1}{3},\dfrac{1}{3}\right]$ such that 
$|f(x)-g_{0}(x)|\leq\dfrac{2}{3}$ for each $x\in X$. Applying Lemma 2 to a
function $f-g_{0}$, we get a continuous function $g_{1}$ such that 
$|g_{1}(x)|\leq\dfrac{1}{3}\left(\dfrac{2}{3}\right)$ for each $x\in M$, and

\[
|f(x)-g_{0}(x)-g_{1}(x)|\leq\left(\dfrac{2}{3}\right)^{2}
\] 

for each $x\in X$. Repeating the arguments, we obtain a sequence $g_{0}$, 
$g_{1}$, $g_{2}$, $\ldots$ of continuous function such that 
$|g_{k}(x)|\leq\dfrac{1}{3}\left(\dfrac{2}{3}\right)^{k}$ for each $x\in M$, and

\[
|f(x)-g_{0}(x)-g_{1}(x)-\ldots-g_{k}(x)|\leq\left(\dfrac{2}{3}\right)^{k+1}
\]

for each $x\in X$. Denote $F(x)\stackrel{\mathrm{def}}{=}
\sum\limits_{k=0}^{+\infty}g_{k}(x)$. Since 
$\sum\limits_{k=0}^{+\infty}\dfrac{1}{3}\left(\dfrac{2}{3}\right)^{k}=1$, it
follows that $F$ is continuous, and $|F(x)|\leq 1$ for each $x\in M$. Moreover,
$F|_{X}\equiv f$. $\lhd$

<div class="block-head">Corollary</div>
<div class="block-body">
A metric space $M$ is compact if and only if every continuous function 
$f\colon M\to\mathbb{R}$ is bounded. 
</div>

$\rhd$ It is well known that if $M$ is compact, then every continuous function 
$f\colon M\to\mathbb{R}$ is bounded. 

If $M$ is not compact, then we can choose a sequence $(x_{n})_{n\in\mathbb{N}}$
in $X$ which has no convergent subsequence. Without loss of generality, we
assume that elements of the sequence are pairwise distinct. Every convergent
sequence with elements in the set $S\stackrel{\mathrm{def}}{=}\{x_{1}$, $x_{2}$,
$\ldots\}$ must be eventually constant, so it has the limit in $S$. Hence, the
set $S$ is closed, and the function $f\colon S\to\mathbb{R}$, defined
by $f(x_{n})=n$, is continuous. Using the Tietze extension theorem, we can
extend $f$ to a continuous unbounded function $F\colon M\to\mathbb{R}$. $\lhd$